### Texts used for “Aššur and his Friends”

The files in this folder are the files used for the analysis with SNA and PMI in our article called “Aššur and his Friends” plus the file listing all the Neo-Assyrian texts used.

*Text_analysed_SNA* is a list linking a document to a god attested in it. Texts that only contained one god were discarded. This nodelist was imported into the social network analysis software UCINET and processed into a two-mode network linking gods to the texts in which they are attested. The two-mode network was further transformed into a one-mode undirected network linking gods who appear in the same texts.

*Text_analysed_window10* was used for SNA and PMI with a window of 10 words as described in our article on Aššur.

##### The making of *Text_analysed_window10*
*Text_analysed_window10* file was used for analysis with Social Network Analysis and Pointwise Mutual Information (PMI) of divine names in Neo-Assyrian texts in Oracc as described in our aforementioned article. The file was additionally used for analysis with Word2vec and for finding collocates with PMI. Therefore, it contains information and work done that is not needed for the analyses in the Aššur article.

Our data comes from the Open Richly Annotated Cuneiform Corpus (Oracc). Oracc is one of the largest electronic corpora of Sumerian and Akkadian texts, and it is regularly updated. Our data is a snapshot of the corpus from September 2017, being extracted from the files provided by Oracc. The data we have consists of 17,619  texts and almost 2 million words. Our text material used for tthe analysis of the divine names contains all texts tagged in Oracc as being from, and only from, the Neo-Assyrian period. We did not include texts tagged as, for instance, “Neo-Assyrian, Neo-Babylonian period.” We rely, thus, solely on the metadata provided for each document in Oracc. The texts tagged as being “lexical” in Oracc were omitted since they refer to a great number of rare divine names many of which are only attested in the lexical lists.
We noticed that the Oracc subprojects designated with the words “Scores” and “Sources” only duplicate texts which are available elsewhere in the parent projects. Therefore we decided to leave them outside our analysis.
In Oracc, a text is identified by a so called P-number if it is in the CDLI catalogue and by a Q-number if it is a composite text. If the text has not yet been assigned a P- or a Q-number, it has a temporary X-number. Because Oracc operates with P-, Q-, and X-numbers, they are used in file ListOfTextsUsed.pdf file, which lists all the texts used to produce file *Text_analysed_window10*. 
We noticed that some texts are included in more than one Oracc project. For example, the text Q003364 is edited both in the Royal Inscriptions of Babylonia online and Royal Inscriptions of the Neo-Assyrian Period projects. Because P- and Q-numbers are unique, different projects simply offer different editions of one and the same text. However, we realized that X-numbers are not unique, and the same X-number can refer to different texts in different projects. We decided to include all texts with X-number in our analyses.
In order to include each text with a P- or Q-number only once in our dataset, we decided to keep the version which had the most words with dictionary form annotation. If several texts had the same number of these lemmas, we chose the one for which we had the most translated lines. In case we still had several candidates, the online publications of the text must have been very similar to each other. Because we were mainly interested in the names of the gods and minor differences in text editions were thus insignificant, we chose the text that was alphabetically first, for example ribo/babylon6/Q003364 over rinap/rinap4/Q003364 with no regard to which of the publications is more recent. Duplicate texts with different identification numbers were not removed. We ended up with a list of 130 texts that were left out of our analysis even if they we tagged as being from Neo-Assyrian period.

We used Oracc metadata to identify gods in our data: all the words tagged as “divine name” were considered as gods for the analysis. Since Akkadian is an inflecting language, we decided to use only the lemmas—the dictionary or citation forms—of the words. Annotation of a text is always an interpretation by a scholar and, as Oracc is composed of a number of subprojects, the way a word is annotated in different texts is not always consistent. Since we are investigating the interaction of Aššur with other deities, it was imperative that all the lemmas pointing to the same god are written in the same way. We hence standardized the divine names.

Lemmas referring to divine names were standardized manually with some help from automated data processing. The point of departure was a list of 1,901 dictionary forms of divine names in our full Oracc dataset of 17,619  texts. Of these names, 1,312 had no variant spellings and they were left as they were. The remaining 589 divine names were standardized to 256 lemmas. To help the process of combining the lemmas, we processed lists which grouped lemmas according to strings of letters they shared. The full lists of lemmas were manually analyzed with the aid of the lists of grouped lemmas, using transliterations in the Oracc data to check if suspect lemmas actually referred to one and the same Akkadian or Sumerian word in the transliteration. When several lemmas in Oracc referred to a single Akkadian or Sumerian word, we chose the most common lemma in Oracc to represent the word and replaced all other lemmas with the most common lemma. However, different ancient names of a deity were kept distinct. For instance, the lemma Ištar was used to replace Issar and IŠTAR but not Inanna. Accordingly, the names Bēl and Marduk were not combined, although Bēl was a common byname of Marduk in antiquity.

Since gods in Mesopotamia are often associated in the texts with various towns and temples and since we were using Word2vec as well as looking for collocates, we  standardized nouns that in Oracc have been tagged either as a geographical name (GN), settlement name (SN), or temple name (TN). The point of departure were the full lists 2,867 lemmas of place names in our Oracc dataset. Of these names we processed lists where  559 place names are normalized to 234 lemmas the same way as the lemmas for divine names. Different ancient names of a place were combined if they were clearly referring to one and the same geographical location. Babili was used to replace, among others, Babylon, Tintir, and Ka-diŋira.

When experimenting with various language technological methods, we noticed that various prepositions and adverbs while prominently present in the results were of little interest. We, hence, decided to replace all words that have not been annotated as being either noun (N), verb (V), or adjective (ADJ) with an underline character (“_”). Furthermore, proper names such as personal names (PN) and royal names (RN) were grouped together under lemmas person and royalty respectively. Furthermore, the nouns tagged in Oracc as being names of agricultural (AN), field (FN), quarter (QN), or watercourse (WN) entities were all replaced with the word place. Broken off words and missing dictionary forms were replaced with the underline character, but partly broken words were left as they are in Oracc as long as they belong to the aforementioned part-of-speech groups. In order to differentiate god names and place names the lemma of which is the same, such as “Aššur”, we added a “_P”-tag to the place names tagged as being geographical, settlement, or temple name (e.g. “Aššur_P”).

Not all the texts in Oracc have been annotated with dictionary forms and most texts also contain unannotated words; therefore file *Text_analysed_window10* contains texts where at least 10% of the words are lemmas after our replacements described above. Furthermore, as the cuneiform script does not mark the end of a sentence and this is not indicated in any way in our texts, each cuneiform document is one line of text in the file used for analysis.



